From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 23. Recorded live
Wednesday, June 13, 2012. This
episode is brought to you
by Tellerik offering the best
in developer tools and support
online@telbrikdotcomandbyfranklin.net training developers to work
smarter and now offering gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details@gesturepak.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Leon Gursing about empathy
pairing and the user connection.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I've
got Leon Gursing on the
phone late at night in
somewhere in Ohio, in Ohio,
somewhere. Right? Glows Columbus. You
aren't closed. So you actually
live in Columbus. I'm in
the bus, you're in the
bus. Excellent. And you are
the Ruby Buddha. Yeah. That
is a really great Twitter
name. It has the many
as is it has a
storied history, but yeah. Yeah.
I have to give credit
to Jerry knew me, my
business partner. He actually coined
it. Yeah. And is that
like your brand? Is it
like, even like, oh.com.org.net dot.dot
X-Box or whatever. All the
new domains it's just Twitter.
It's just Twitter, that's it?
So you, and I've actually
spoken at two different conferences
together without even realizing it.
Even though we run in
different circles and a couple
of people commented that one
thing that we're both known
for, and I think it's
good to be known for.
This is being a generally
pleasant and pretty agreeable and
very nice online. I don't
think that you've said anything
mean ever. You're pretty chill
and that's not really common,
like on the internet, regardless
of community, regardless of language,
regardless of what people say
about any community, it's just
so uncommon to find someone
being consistently nice for more
than a few months at
a time. But, but is
that something that you're, are
you like, are you mean
when like the microphone is
off and the Twitter handle
is not turned on or
are you always nice? Oh
no. I, I turned into
a demon. The gloves come
off. I just started F
bombing everywhere I go. No
inappropriate dancing girls and swearing.
Just exactly. It's like an
old timey, like a, you
know, fifties weird kind sexual
Novella come to life. We
are the very worst of
mad men. Yes, absolutely. No,
I don't. I, I, I
don't particularly like the term
nice because I wouldn't, I
don't, I, I don't, I
guess I don't identify with
the term. Nice. Aye. Aye,
aye. Look to be empathetic
because to me over time.
So I mean early, early
on in my career too,
for like 10, 15 years
ago, you know, you have
a lot of  and
then you can get caught
up in, in that same
kind of weird battle. And
I was, I was caught
up in it for a
while and I kind of
looked around and I was
like, man, I, I'm not
angry. Like why, why does,
why is everybody angry? And
it took a minute to
just turn it on it's
a year. And just think
about that question. Like why,
why has everyone around me
so frustrated, so angry, so
afraid. And so it just
kind of switched not to
necessarily being nice, but to
being, to showing more empathy
and to listening more, I
think the reason that folks
tend to get riled up
is because they're essentially shouting
into a vacuum. And what
they're wanting is to be
validated that what they have
to say is important and
that somebody is interested. And
if you keep repeating yourself
over and over again and
has never sounded back, no
one says, I hear you.
I understand you. Then it's
easy to suddenly turn inward
and think well is what
I have to say real.
And I think that fear
kind of turns into this
vitreal that we see on
the web. I had a
conversation with commander taco from
slash dot and a kind
of original Braithwaite. One of
my was a fan. I
am a huge fan of
his Canada, Reagan Wald and
Reagan wall is always on
hacker news. That's effectively the
commenting system for his blog
because everything he writes is
gold and then it ends
up on hacker news. And
then that's where the comments
come in. And the co
the discussion I had with,
with commander taco, Rob Malda
and, and reg was about
criticism. And in both instances,
you know, those are two
communities that are known for
just a level of, of
bile that is really quite
amazing. And you, you find
yourself reading and wondering, like,
what must be going on
at this guy's job or
this girl's company that would
cause them to be so
mean to Other you. Yeah.
And it's like, and it's
funny that you mentioned human
beings because the last three
comments that I've left on
slash dot were basically, Hey,
on a person here. No,
I hadn't. I hadn't. I
had nothing else to say
other than hi. Just wanted
to let you know, I
can hear you. Okay. Oh
yes. I completely understand. Most
times I just simply respond
back. If I'm, you know,
being baited, I just respond
back. I mean, if your
intent was to hurt my
feelings, then you've succeeded. If
you have a valid point,
I'm willing to listen and
engage. Cause that's really the
truth. The truth is that
someone who's leading with anger
is not being heard. If
you're being heard and you
feel like you're being heard
and understood, it's very difficult
to suddenly just react knee-jerk
in anger. If you give
that, you'll get it back.
And that's that, that's all
I'm trying to do ever.
It could because, because being
nice just for the sake
of being nice, just for
being pleasant for me, at
least the way that those
terms sit in my psyche,
there's, there's a, there's a
certain level. There's a veneer
on those terms of falseness
or, you know, it's almost
like you can, the notion
of somebody like, like, like
smiling through their anger. I
don't want that. Cause that's
nothing, you're not showing me
anything about who you are.
If you're angry and you're
legitimately angry, I will see
it turn to something else.
Usually that anger falls away
really quickly in the face
of empathy. Yeah. It's funny
how, you know, it's, it's,
it's very Yoda, but the
whole anger, you know, fear
begets anger is really true.
I mean, ultimately there's fear
underneath that in some way.
Absolutely. Well, I mean, I
think you even said it
on Twitter today, which kind
of launched this thing, which
was the hugs or something,
you know, you threw hugs
in there after like a
comment or something. And I
went, yes, that's it right
there because it's really, that's
all we all. Yeah. Well,
I, I posted something just
kind of random and silly
and inflammatory noninflammatory. I just
made some silly posts a
couple of days ago about
visual basic six and Ruby.
And the point wasn't that
they're the same. It was
just like, Oh, well I'm
still doing record sets and
things, you know what I
mean, 20 years ago, you
know, well, this is just
to I'm stupid or for
having, Oh, you know, like
people, like you said, someone
sent me an invoice for
their time. Like I need
those 10 minutes back, you
know, here's the invoice like
re really, I mean, just
kind of being a silly
guy. So then I said,
you know, I was rocking
the world in VB three,
20 years ago. I was
seriously crushing it. And it
was maybe three. And I'm
okay with that. It was
20 years ago, you know,
you are named textual person.
You were three. Right. You
know what I mean? You
were Potty training and I
was crushing it. So I'm
old and I get to
be old now. So I'm
going to sit back here
and be old. Okay. I'm
gonna be old and enjoy
my vantage point. I just
don't know what that there
is, there is nothing. And
you earn that. That's, you
know, that's perfect. Wonderful. Just
for sticking around. And then
the one guy was like,
I hate all languages. And
I was like, okay, let's
hug it out. I hate
that. That was right, Jay.
Right. That was pretty awesome.
The Jay's beautiful. Right? J
J is from Michigan and
he's incredibly smart and really,
really talented. It was a
funny comment. And he had
this great comment, but, but
that's something that he and
I talk about a lot.
It's just, you'll have a
contrarian viewpoint of maybe something
that's in the dominant culture
at the moment. And I'm
like, well, that's not negative.
It's not, it's not negative
to have experience that you've
actually gained wisdom from and
then turn around and share
it. Yeah, yeah. No matter
what it was when, no
matter what you're doing. Absolutely.
That's fine. It's negative. When
you have no concept, when
you have no idea what
you're talking about when you
were simply cargo, culting something
that you've heard over and
over again, just so that
you can be given a
seat at some fictional table
that simply does not exist.
Yeah. And it's important to
remember how small our little
echo chamber really is, you
know? Oh yeah, yeah. I
mean, someone's like, Oh, you
have so many thousands of
followers. And it's like, you
know, but there's like 8 billion
people or something. I mean,
that's pretty small. It's like,
not even a village, you
know what I mean? Like,
Oh my God, Hanselman, you've
got 50,000 followers. Okay. So
that's like a suburb of
a small Midwestern town. And
most of them are probably
bots. At least 40,000 of
them are bots. You know
what I mean? It's like,
it's like that episode of
stuff, star Trek, when Kirk
and Spock try to take
over that planet. That's full
of mobsters and somewhere in
the middle of the show,
one of them mobsters like,
wait a second. I've only
ever seen YouTube and cursing.
No, no, no. There's like
400 guys up there. I
don't think so. I'm pretty
sure it's just you guys
in a phaser. That's how
I feel on Twitter. Sometimes.
Like the same six guys,
this guy is, you know,
he has a mr. Burns
avatar and then there's the
other guy and everyone else
has a bot, but I
like what you said about
you're right. I've been using
the word nice and kind.
I always use the word
kind. I started this pain
with kindness. Empathy is that
we nailed it with empathy,
empathy, because I started this
meme a while back called
don't give bile a permalink.
Like if you're going to
be awful, it'd be just
do it. You know, like
at a Bennigan's or a
bar somewhere where no one's
recording it, but for goodness
sake, don't give it a
permalink and then make it
Google-able. And ah, yeah. You
know, is come back to
your history. I mean, the,
I think the difference between
the, the text based person
that you're talking about and
someone like you, or to
a lesser extent me is
that we're visible not only
online, but we're visible in
person. Like for, for me
this, then we were talking
about this offline. I, I
speak regionally a lot. And
the reason I do regionally
is because I it's really
one purpose it's I, I
have to pay a tax,
which is talk for an
hour and I get to
meet hundreds of developers. And
most of the time I
get to pair with them.
So I get to go
see people and interact with
them, understand them, see what
they're interested in, share my
stories here. Their, if you
know a face and it's
not an avatar, it's not
mr. Burns. It's that guy
who came over and wanted
to just simply go have
lunch and was genuinely interested
in what you were doing.
It's hard to be mad.
That's I think really the
difference is that people are
not necessarily engaging on a
more personal level. So it's
easy to just simply throw
stones. That is, you know,
that is really true. I
mean, it's something I I'm
realizing that I've always thought
about subconsciously, but I've never
brought it to the forefront.
I mean, there's certain snarky
text people with a Twitter
egg as their avatar or
a cartoon character or some
animated GIF who all say
something and then they always
come with the snark. I
don't know if it's a
man or a woman. I
don't know if they're English
or Scottish or Indian. I
know nothing about them other
than they're mean, or they're
snarky on text. But if
I've met somebody and I
see that they're they have,
they're real people and they
have a, well, even if
that's a pseudonym, even if
it's consistently a cartoon avatar
of someone from second life,
at least it's like humanoid
and, and something I can
somehow relate to. And then
they talk about their lives.
You know, it's funny when
people announce that they're going
to unfollow you on Twitter,
it's like, Oh, there's not
enough tech, not enough meat.
That's fine. Wow. I don't,
you know, I have other
things I'd like to do
like gardening. You don't want
my gardening tweets, you know,
but I love that because
it's like follow the whole
person. I want to know
that you're a human and
you do you dig other
stuff? Absolutely. Well, if that's
the only thing that's important,
the motivation is, is important.
Do the reason you choose
a language, the reason that
you choose a community reason,
you choose a job it's
for its people. It is
never those underlying things. Those
are the things that people
point to me because they're
easy to quantify. I took
that job because of more
money. I took that job
because of X, Y, and
Z. Those are check boxes
that you can use in
Pippie conversations to a search
state, like where you are
in a hierarchical system. But
really when you take the
job you want, when you
find the job you love
or find somebody who says,
you know what, I'm really
doing, what I want to
be doing right now, and
then ask them to talk
about it within 10 seconds.
You're going to hear about
Joe and Ken and Scott
and Matt. And you know
what I mean? They're going
to, they're just going to
laundry list, all of the
great people that they're dealing
with and all of the
lessons they're learning and all
the advances that they're having
in their lives, all the
wisdom they're acquiring. That's, that's
amazing. And that's important. And
that's just infinitely more motivational
than some new title that
somebody got. Nobody cares about
that. They say they do,
but that's, that's, that's backyard
barbecue fodder. That's not, that's
not what you, you're not
resting on your death bed
thinking. Yeah, we're at, when
I turned 35 and you
know, became check lead. That
was the thing. No, it
was when I wrote that
code, we had that all
my bug squash session and
three new features fell out
of it and people loved
it. And we all had
a great time. It's a
different thing. That's funny. The,
one of the best memories
I have was about 15
years ago, we were working
as it is now 2002,
15 years ago, we were
2012, 15 years ago. And
we were doing a website
called gear.com. And we were
using this amazing new technology
called XML. And we were
using it. We were using
it for everything. And I
honestly couldn't tell you anything
other than that, that project,
other than we use XML.
But I could tell you,
we had four people working
all summer long, like the
hot summer in a, and
we was the first time
we'd ever taken all our
desks and kind of like
put them in a square.
And we just sat there
and we listened to cake
albums, number, you know, cake.
We listened to cake eight
hours a day for like,
this is a, this is
my memory. Of course, it's
the, it's the kind of
like warped memory of the
summer. It's a beautiful thing,
but that's 40 hours a
week of nothing but cake.
And we would just sing
and dance and write the
stupid website. And in the
end we rocked the website.
I don't even remember. I
don't even remember, you know,
I'm sure it went live
or whatever at some point,
but you know, I cannot
not think about how awesome
that crew was without, you
know, if I hear cake
anywhere, even like music version
of cake, it's like I
was there. Yeah. And that's
what you'll take. So even
that example that you just
gave, you mentioned XML, a
small joke in XML land
one time rests with everything
else around it. Yes. That's,
what's interesting. I mean, the
rest of this stuff is
just means to an answer.
This is all this technology
that people are fighting over
right now a year from
now. It would be something
else 10 years from now
will be something else. It
doesn't matter. That stuff is
cool. It's interesting. It fuels
the conversation, but really what's
at the end of the
day, what people want is
they want to connect. They
want to be social with
each other and they want
to be, and they want
to have that reach and
that impact with their audience,
whatever that audience happens to
be. If you are somebody
who is shipping product, you
want to know that you
want to be as close
to that relationship to the
person that's actually using the
product as humanly possible. The
further away you distance yourself
from that, I think you
will find a strong correlation
with people who are distanced
from many other facets of
their emotional life. I was
at a, a, a customer
site as I get to
visit a lot of customers.
And I was like customer
in a day. And this
was a customer. I was
in business in business for
like 30 years. And some
of these guys had like
grown up there, like that
was their first job, you
know? And they were like
15, 17, 20 years later,
they're still there. And this,
this new guy was talking.
And one of the things
I always talk about when
I'm at the, at the,
at a customer is I,
I asked them who is
your customer? And they would
describe these big multilevel marketing
organizations and these big groups
and whatnot. And I was
like, okay. And explaining the
customer. And they go on
for about 20 minutes. And
then the new guy who'd
been there eight months was
like, no, no. I mean,
it's the mom in Phoenix
who just started her own
website to sell double ended
candles or whatever. I don't
know idea, you know, she's
the customer. And she, you
know, because they have these
system that builds websites like
that. And, and people just
kind of stared at him
and they're like, Oh my,
you know, wow, Whoa. You
know, like you just blew
my mind. Like, so I
said, well, when was the
last time anyone talked to
the customer said, well, we
talked to their account representatives.
And we talked to their
marketing guy at the multinational,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But I don't think I've
ever talked to the customer.
And then the guy went
on this amazing soliloquy about,
about the great recession and
enabling the end user and
thinking about, you know, five
extra clicks could be enough
to have her give up
in the creation of her
website, integration of her business.
And then, you know, it
was pretty melodramatic, but man,
it got us like totally
amped about like, who is
this mysterious customer? We must
find them. We must find
them and connect with them
immediately. You know, we saw
dispatch someone to Arizona to
hunt Hunter down. And it
was so cool that this
guy had not been there
a long time was totally
plugged into who that customer
was. And the old timers
had forgotten sure. Who the
human being was that was
touched by their deployments. Sure.
It happens A lot and
it happens all the time.
Leah, that's the thing that
I think that makes me,
that truly makes me sad
is listening to someone talk
about the project they're working
on with utter contempt and
disdain and say, well, what
are you, why are you
even building it? Like, well,
why, I mean, is there
a point other than to
draw a check? Cause I
guarantee you can get, draw
a check just about anywhere.
Why, why are you even
doing that? Like who's benefiting
from your work. And the
answer is, I don't know
some guy or I don't
know somebody somewhere. I don't
know. So, so do you
see anyone? Do you hear
feedback? Well, you know, the
marketing material comes by and
I see like a quote
from somebody and that's it.
Right, right. The verbatims they
call them. Yeah. All of
that. The, the verbatims that's
like a, this is what
they said verbatim. It's like
really? That's, you know, like
maybe an embedded tweet. It's
ridiculous. Yeah. Yeah. Why do
you think I visit customers
so much? I mean, it's
like sometimes not very often,
but every once in a
while, some not in my
hierarchy, like not my boss,
my boss's boss, but some
random dude will be like,
you know, so you went
and sat with a customer
for like, you know, eight
hours yesterday. Like yeah. I
mean, I sat with them
at their desk and we
paired. Yeah. I guess that
really what you need to
be doing with your time.
And I'm like, Oh my
goodness. Do you have any
idea of what, what it
means to be a member
of the community? Like I
Skype and pare all day,
you know what I mean?
Yeah. It's like someone actually
was Skyping me yesterday. They're
like, all right, well I'll
just let you go back
to whatever it is you
do. And I'm like, well,
you don't know what it
is, but trust me, I'm
talking to a lot of
people. And it's funny. Sometimes
I make up these archetypes.
I've talked about this a
little bit on the show.
We have these two archetypes
that I always bring up.
The first one is the
chief architect of the Nebraska
department of forestry. I don't
know who that is. And
I don't know if he
exists or not. I assume
that there are no trees.
They're very important, but he
seems important. But he probably
is like doing work and
like access and he can't
afford our latest product. And
he would really love to
use the new hot stuff,
but he's on access or
whatever. And anytime, you know,
there's something around pricing or
skews. I'm like, dude, what
about this guy? I mean,
it's my way of putting
a face. There's a guy
he's important in Nebraska. And
he does important stuff for
that, but he can't, he's
got these constraints. Are we
going to lock him out
of our product line? If
we do X, Y, Z,
sometimes, sometimes you win. Sometimes
you don't. Yeah. So, so
how often do you win
that argument and how often
do you lose it? If,
if the archetype or the
person, or the story is,
is, is, is, is real,
or is really put together
like convincingly. Sometimes it's an
amalgamation of multiple things. I'll
talk to five or six
people and I'll, I'll, I'll
give real actual stories or
I'll say, well, here's what
I'm hearing from these five
people and I, that they
are representative of a larger
group. Sure. I've talked about
dark. What I call dark
matter developers. We know they
exist. We can't really measure
it, but I know they
make up a large amount
of space and we can't
necessarily see, but I know
in my heart of hearts
that they're there and I'm
still trying to find the
measurement tool, but we can't
forget those guys. And it
works. I mean, if you
can really look someone in
the eye, even at a
giant company like Microsoft and
make them understand that there
is a person who is
doing this work, that is
much more convincing than saying,
well, the guys at Dell,
you know what I mean?
Know what I mean? Like
that's so impersonal. That means
nothing. Right? Exactly. That means
nothing. I, I really wish
the folks would listen to
the words that come out
of their mouth and that
we would collectively look them
back in the eye and
just call them on that.
Not in a mean way,
but if somebody says, well,
X from Dell, or like
10 levels deep of, of
an individual person, like just
referencing hierarchies of individuals and
just not somebody, you know,
not somebody you've interacted with,
you could simply just say,
I don't believe you prove
that to me. Then I
think you would, that would
force that individual to re
retake some stock to go
back and actually try and
try and actually have that
connection. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. I'm
actually, I mean, I wish
it was a scalable situation
though. You know what I
mean? Like I wish that
I could like help everyone.
Like, you know how you,
you know, you want to
do tech support for everybody,
You know what I mean?
Yeah. I mean, yeah, I
sure, but I, I really,
I don't and I can't,
I do what I can.
I do what I like
to the point that it
will burn me out and
I'll stop for a little.
Wow. Yeah, yeah. The minute
I'm got the batteries charged,
I'm back out again. I
am interested in what I
can do here in my
area with my folks. And
my hope is that they
would then be encouraged to
do the same thing, what
I'm doing when I go
out. And I just asked
strangers to pair and I
sit down and just do
it with the way, you
know, who cares. Let's just
do this. There's, there's no
skin in the game for
either one of us. Let's
just have fun if they
go and do that and
then do it again, then
I hope the telephone effect
happens. And then that's just
normal. But right now it's
too easy to sit behind
that wall and not engage
and simply played defensive and
just take wisecracks and shots
at anything that you just
simply don't understand. Yeah. Yeah,
exactly. The, sometimes as you're
giving me a lot of
really interesting ideas about how
I can connect people like
inside the big giant corporation
I work for with like,
with reality, I always joke
about the Redmond reality distortion
field. And I joke, and
I, and I have this,
this kind of a irritation
with what I call college
hires. And it's like, it's
like another 40 year old
person. I'll just say guy
in a gender neutral way.
Some 40 year old guy
who got to the big,
giant multinational corporation when they
were 20 out of Iranian,
straight out of school, they've
been there 20 years. Right.
And I've got 20 years
experience and they've got 20
years experience. And you'd think
that we would be like,
cool, Hey, we're two old
guys. We've done a lot
of stuff, but they think
they've got it all figured
out because they work for
big, giant multinational. And they're
really high up at the
company. And I've worked for
a smattering of companies, you
know, a couple of years
here, a couple of years
there. So I think I've
got reality figured out, and
then we don't connect on
reality. Like they've forgotten what
it's like to not work
anywhere else because they've only
ever worked in one place.
So I'm like, dude, you
need to quit, go and
have a failed startup on
our products. And then come
back. You mean like what
a great experience that would
be. But I'm realizing that
since it's not going to
happen, I can stop complaining
about those guys sucking and
really just try to make
sure that they connect to
the human being that is
using the product because they're
not going to quit. Yeah.
Or even to their own
ecosystem. So if they're not
going to venture that far
out, right. If going that
far outside of the building
is too far, then give
them an opportunity to connect
with a human being on
a human level directly. So,
and all, now I'm going
to give it away for
everyone. I've been giving this
away anyway. So, but like,
yeah, So this will be
a good, a good finale.
Now break it down. Here
we go. Or can do
this, but here. So for
me, when I run into
that challenge, my go-to was
to just simply ask if
we could pair and they'll
usually be resistant to it.
And I say that, so
it's okay. I got my
laptop here. I'll just open
it. And I just open
it and they sit down
inevitably and I'll just start
just writing the worst stuff
I can possibly write. Nothing
opens up. Somebody's like feeling
superior. And I, I don't
care. Like obviously this is
somebody who's in their bubble
anyway. So, and even if
they go out and they
say, you know, I coated
with Leon and he's terrible.
You know, I, my hope
would be that the next
person sitting next to me,
well, wait a minute. I
paired with him for like
four weeks. He was awesome.
You know? Oh, he did
his crazy, he sucks thing
to you. Oh, you know,
I, because to me that's
really, it. It's, it's, it's,
it's the guide that you,
the one who's not going
to go out and start
a startup, the one who's
not going to go out
to a dev group, the
one who's not going to
go to a conference, the
engage on that level, who's
going to be set in
their ways and not expand.
That's fine. That's a choice.
They're welcome to that. But
at that turns into something
that becomes a cancer in
their organization, in our company,
in their products, in, in
their lives that can be
mitigated. And that could be
mitigated on a very small
scale. And that's something that,
that, that niceness, that ability
to fail in front of
others, that ability to be
an open person is just
as infectious as the bile,
as the negativity. And it's
far more rewarding. I did
that. Kill him with kindness
and empathy. Why not? I
mean, what's the difference? What
have you got to lose?
What have I got to
lose by just showing that
I'm willing to show you
my worst. And if you
give me an opportunity, I
guarantee you I'll show you
my best and I will
allow you, and I'll forward
you the same, the same
opportunity. There's, there's nothing better
than that. And then it's
easy. Then that's somebody who
calls, you know, Hey, you
know, I got this problem.
I was just, you know,
you don't wanna come over
here and whiteboard with me.
Sure. Yeah, sure. I'll do,
Everyone's got time for that.
There's no reason why you
don't have that. Very cool.
I'm going to let it
hang right there. Thank you
for hanging out a great
point. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes Leon. Gursing
the rupee Buddha. We'll see
you again next week.